**Credit Card Fraud Detection**

It contains only numerical input variables which are the result of a PCA transformation. Unfortunately, due to confidentiality issues, we cannot provide the original features and more background information about the data. Features V1, V2, … V28 are the principal components obtained with PCA, the only features which have not been transformed with PCA are 'Time' and 'Amount'. Feature 'Time' contains the seconds elapsed between each transaction and the first transaction in the dataset. The feature 'Amount' is the transaction Amount, this feature can be used for example-dependant cost-sensitive learning. Feature 'Class' is the response variable and it takes value 1 in case of fraud and 0 otherwise.

Given the class imbalance ratio, we recommend measuring the accuracy using the Area Under the Precision-Recall Curve (AUPRC). Confusion matrix accuracy is not meaningful for unbalanced classification.

Update (03/05/2021)
A simulator for transaction data has been released as part of the practical handbook on Machine Learning for Credit Card Fraud Detection - https://fraud-detection-handbook.github.io/fraud-detection-handbook/Chapter_3_GettingStarted/SimulatedDataset.html. We invite all practitioners interested in fraud detection datasets to also check out this data simulator, and the methodologies for credit card fraud detection presented in the book.
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/mlg-ulb/creditcardfraud?resource=download


**IEEE-CIS Fraud Detection**
Description
Imagine standing at the check-out counter at the grocery store with a long line behind you and the cashier not-so-quietly announces that your card has been declined. In this moment, you probably aren’t thinking about the data science that determined your fate.

Embarrassed, and certain you have the funds to cover everything needed for an epic nacho party for 50 of your closest friends, you try your card again. Same result. As you step aside and allow the cashier to tend to the next customer, you receive a text message from your bank. “Press 1 if you really tried to spend $500 on cheddar cheese.”

While perhaps cumbersome (and often embarrassing) in the moment, this fraud prevention system is actually saving consumers millions of dollars per year. Researchers from the IEEE Computational Intelligence Society (IEEE-CIS) want to improve this figure, while also improving the customer experience. With higher accuracy fraud detection, you can get on with your chips without the hassle.

IEEE-CIS works across a variety of AI and machine learning areas, including deep neural networks, fuzzy systems, evolutionary computation, and swarm intelligence. Today they’re partnering with the world’s leading payment service company, Vesta Corporation, seeking the best solutions for fraud prevention industry, and now you are invited to join the challenge.

In this competition, you’ll benchmark machine learning models on a challenging large-scale dataset. The data comes from Vesta's real-world e-commerce transactions and contains a wide range of features from device type to product features. You also have the opportunity to create new features to improve your results.

If successful, you’ll improve the efficacy of fraudulent transaction alerts for millions of people around the world, helping hundreds of thousands of businesses reduce their fraud loss and increase their revenue. And of course, you will save party people just like you the hassle of false positives.
https://www.kaggle.com/c/ieee-fraud-detection

**Synthetic Financial Datasets For Fraud Detection
Synthetic datasets generated by the PaySim mobile money simulator**

About Dataset
Context
There is a lack of public available datasets on financial services and specially in the emerging mobile money transactions domain. Financial datasets are important to many researchers and in particular to us performing research in the domain of fraud detection. Part of the problem is the intrinsically private nature of financial transactions, that leads to no publicly available datasets.

We present a synthetic dataset generated using the simulator called PaySim as an approach to such a problem. PaySim uses aggregated data from the private dataset to generate a synthetic dataset that resembles the normal operation of transactions and injects malicious behaviour to later evaluate the performance of fraud detection methods.

Content
PaySim simulates mobile money transactions based on a sample of real transactions extracted from one month of financial logs from a mobile money service implemented in an African country. The original logs were provided by a multinational company, who is the provider of the mobile financial service which is currently running in more than 14 countries all around the world.

This synthetic dataset is scaled down 1/4 of the original dataset and it is created just for Kaggle.

https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/ealaxi/paysim1
